{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red16\green60\blue192;\red24\green25\blue27;\red46\green49\blue51;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;\cssrgb\c23529\c25098\c26275;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16660\viewh15000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Esplorazione dati:
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sentiment Analysis\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Parole pi\'f9 frequenti trovate nel dataset\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Parole pi\'f9 frequenti positive e negative\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Andamento della percezione nell\'92arco del tempo\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Estrapolazione post con maggior numero di Like/Retweet/Menzioni\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Parole pi\'f9 frequenti nei post con maggior numero di Like/Retweet/Menzioni\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Frasi pi\'f9 frequenti collegate a chatgpt\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Hashtag pi\'f9 frequenti\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Tipologie di post legate a chatgpt \uc0\u8594  esclamative, richiesta info, narrazione esperienza, dubbio\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Estrapolazione di tendenze nei contenuti attraverso il tempo\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Persone si rivolgono a chat gpt usando pronome maschile o femminile?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f0\b \ul Appunti per relazione
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Narrativa \uc0\u8594  Qual \'e8 percezione degli italiani riguardo a\'a0 ChatGPT/intelligenza artificiale
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Dati \uc0\u8594  Post e commenti degli italiani sui social media\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Visualizzazione \uc0\u8594 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Classificazione articolo in base a\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 dati \uc0\u8594  1. Interpretare i numeri come fatti = uso di dati pubblici e produzione di una visualizzazione singola che supporta il tema trattato dal progetto
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 	\uc0\u8594  5. Indagine approfondita = uso di grandi quantit\'e0 di dati e costruzione di database che di solito forniscono pi\'f9 di una storia
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 storia \uc0\u8594  2. Dal grande al piccolo = i dati guidano il lettore da una situazione generale verso un caso particolare. Il lettore pu\'f2 muoversi dal generale al particolare e viceversa (ad esempio attraverso una mappa) e accedere ai dati per ogni area specifica. Si possono avere anche dei filtri interattivi per l\'92accesso ad alcuni dati
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 	\uc0\u8594  4. Evidenziare i contrasti = l\'92obiettivo consiste nel sottolineare le differenze tra i dati
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 visualizzazione \uc0\u8594 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Comunicazione efficace:\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 narrare storia \uc0\u8594 
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Includere interviste \uc0\u8594 
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 StoryBoard\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 \uc0\u9679  The StoryBoard helps to write the story\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 \uc0\u9679  The List of questions will be our storyboard\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 \uc0\u9679  Try to guess the visualizations useful for the story\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 \uc0\u9679  The story it\'92s the centre\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 \uc0\u9679  Enter real stories not just facts
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Title\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Incipit\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Introduction
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Title question 1
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Title question 2
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Title question n
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 \'85
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 Conclusions
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 The 4 features that define a great visualisation
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 1. Functional: The shape of the graphic is adapted to the questions the visualisation should help answer.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 2. Beautiful/Attractive/Aesthetic level: If it is not attractive, readers won\'92t stop to read and interact with it. Attention-Grabbing is 50% of the work.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 3. Insightful: Revealing hidden facts that are unexpected or surprising or extremely important.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \strokec4 4. Enlightening: The information that the visualisation reveals changes the perception of the reader.
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\ul Studi di riferimento per esplorazione\

\f2\b0 \ulnone - pu\'f2 essere utile vedere quale tipo di analisi \'e8 gi\'e0 stata fatta su chatGPT\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec4 - data set che contiene percezione su AI \uc0\u8594  spunto per nostra indagine, misure, indicatori e metodi utilizzati
\f1\fs24 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://msropendata.com/datasets/feed8996-d9d4-47b9-9938-44ed298628fc"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs48 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://msropendata.com/datasets/feed8996-d9d4-47b9-9938-44ed298628fc}}\
\
\cb3 \strokec4 \

\f3\fs48 \cf6 \strokec6 Descrizione
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f3\fs48 \cf6 \strokec6 Analyses of text corpora over time can reveal trends in beliefs, interest, and sentiment about a topic. We focus on views expressed about artificial intelligence (AI) in the New York Times over a 30-year period. General interest, awareness, and discussion about AI has waxed and waned since the field was founded in 1956. We present a set of measures that captures levels of engagement, measures of pessimism and optimism, the prevalence of specific hopes and concerns, and topics that are linked to discussions about AI over decades.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f3\fs48 \cf6 \strokec6 We find that discussion of AI has increased sharply since 2009, and that these discussions have been consistently more optimistic than pessimistic. However, when we examine specific concerns, we find that worries of loss of control of AI, ethical concerns for AI, and the negative impact of AI on work have grown in recent years. We also find that hopes for AI in healthcare and education have increased over time. This is joint work with E. Fast and E. Horvitz published at AAAI 2017.
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f3\fs48 \cf6 \strokec6 - data set con percezione su AI, Universit\'e0 Texas\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/project/152542/version/V1/view;jsessionid=2B9034E5D3C3255F8F4C8D6F65C15268
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f3\fs48 \cf6 \cb1 \strokec6 Data set di tweet con #chatgpt
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/tariqsays/chatgpt-twitter-dataset"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs48 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/tariqsays/chatgpt-twitter-dataset}}\
\

\f2\fs48 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 The dataset provides a glimpse into the online conversation surrounding the ChatGPT language model and can be used for various natural language processing and machine learning tasks, such as sentiment analysis, topic modeling, and more. It allows understanding the community, the level of interest, and the use of chatGPT.
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \cf7 \strokec7 Data set con sentiment analysis
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/charunisa/chatgpt-sentiment-analysis"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs48 \cf5 \cb1 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/charunisa/chatgpt-sentiment-analysis}}\cb1 \strokec4 \
\

\f2\fs48 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 ChatGPT has been a major talk in the tech world. The tweets about chatgpt were gathered for a month and then the sentiment analysis was made using Natural Language Processing.
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \cf7 \strokec7 Relazione
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \cf7 \strokec7 1) Come sono stati recuperati i dati \uc0\u8594  metodi e dataset utilizzati
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs48 \cf7 \strokec7 2) Come sono stati gestiti i missing values\'a0
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \strokec4 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\
}